The Joe Rogan experience. And we're back. What's up. How are you?
Nice to be.
Back here. When you first came here,
you were thinking about running for president. Now you're out there.
We're all in it's happening. Are you nervous? No. Is it weird? No. No,
not at all. Do you feel like this is like destiny? No.
Um, I feel weird. I'm on a mission. I'm on a mission. Uh, you know,
there there's a lot of issues. I think we're going to talk about,
about why I'm running for president. Um,
but being out and connecting with people all across this country,
bringing this message, um, really of,
of ending these wasteful destructive, uh,
foreign policies that have been so costly on the American people for
so long, costly on our troops,
costly on our veterans ending these wasteful regime, change wars,
ending this new cold war and nuclear arms race,
and taking the trillions of dollars that we've been spending on these
programs. And, and that we will continue to spend.
If the status quo is allowed to continue and investing those dollars back into
serving the people in our communities, serving the people of this country,
things like healthcare, education infrastructure, protecting our environment,
clean water. There's so much that we need to do.
We've got limited resources to accomplish that.
These are my favorite things that you talk about. Um,
my question is always though,
why do we spend so much time and money and at,
at such a Titanic human cost for these regime change
wars, what do you think is the cause like, other than the obvious,
if we, you have a dictator that's in place,
there's an obvious outcry like Saddam Hussein post nine 11. Other than that,
what is,
what is the reason why we invest so much time and energy into regime
change wars so much so that we've just accepted that this is a part of our gross
economy.
Like if we're going to take all the money that the United States earns and all
the money that goes to taxes,
we just automatically put a gigantic chunk of that
into investing in these wars in other countries, widely.
Wildly, almost without any kind of, um, traditional real accountability, uh,
six to $8 trillion is what's estimated that's been spent since nine 11
alone on these regime change wars without even taking into account,
uh, what the costs will continue to be, to take care of our veterans,
those who have gone and fought in these wars and have come home dealing with,
you know, visible and invisible wounds that,
that they'll have to live with for the rest of their lives.
Let's start back. You mentioned Saddam Hussein. Uh,
I don't think it was necessarily an obvious outcry, Saddam Hussein, uh,
and the toppling of his regime was done for oil, right?
It was done for financial reasons and the architects of that Iraq war, uh,
sold it in the guise of, Hey,
Saddam Hussein is working with those terrorists who attacked us on nine 11,
and he's going to give them his weapons of mass destruction.
Both of which turned out to be false,
false intelligence in lies that were sold to the American people,
sold to soldiers. People like me, uh, who, who believed what they said.
You know, I enlisted after nine 11,
like so many people in this country to go after the terrorists who had attacked
us on that day, killing thousands of Americans.
And they sold this lie, uh,
for financial gain for oil. You,
you look at some of the architects of that Iraq war guys, like John Bolton,
who today is president Trump's national security council director.
And you look at what's happening in Venezuela,
almost the very same playbook being used, or they're selling this,
this regime change effort, uh,
threatening to use us military force to go in and topple a regime under the
guise of humanitarianism.
When in fact in Bolton has said this on national television that well,
we really want to make sure that American oil companies are able to go in and
access that oil rich country in Venezuela.
So do you think that's why there's so much turmoil in that country right now,
th th this is this battle over regime change because of the fact they want to
control the oil.
I think the us coming in and trying to insert itself into
what is happening in Venezuela is what is, what is the problem?
So they're doing that through a very, very heavy sanctions. Uh,
they're doing that through various means and threatening to use our military to
go in and topple the regime there rather than taking the approach that I would
take as president,
which is to recognize that the people of Venezuela like people in other
countries in the world need to be the ones to determine their governance and
their future.
Just like we wouldn't want any other country to come in and threaten to use
their military, to topple our government,
or to tell us who should or shouldn't be the leaders in our country.
We shouldn't be doing that in their country. There are, uh,
serious issues that are causing a lot of suffering for the Venezuelan people.
If we really want to be helpful,
we should be a force to help move towards
reconciliation and peace rather than what this administration is doing,
which is, uh,
throwing fuel on the flames of a civil war.
That will be devastating, devastating.
When you say, move towards reconciliation now.
Well, you see there's differences, right?
There's the people who are with the current government in Venezuela,
and there is the opposition.
Clearly they have differences on what kind of future,
what kind of governance and who should lead that government, uh,
going forward rather than threatening to use the United States,
the United States coming in and trying to act once again, as the world's police,
uh, which by the way, throughout history has not had good results,
not for the people in those countries, what to speak of the cost that, uh, we,
the people pay rather than saying, Hey, let's,
let's work towards peace,
try to push forward diplomacy and find what are the conditions that would make
some form of reconciliation, uh, going forward.
Is there an argument? And I really don't know the answer to this,
but is there an argument that these regime change wars, although terrible,
we would be way worse off if those weren't in place.
I think that's an argument that proponents for regime change wars try to make,
but history shows and proves that the very opposite is true.
Uh, look at Iraq, you can look at Libya. You can look at Syria,
you can look at Guatemala and Ecuador. You can look at other countries, uh,
Iran we're in the past.
We have either overtly or covertly through the CIA gone in and toppled,
uh, leaders of countries or dictators or regimes.
And the result has been more suffering for the people in those
countries. Their lives have been made worse off, not only in the short term,
but in the longterm and the cost. Once again,
to the American people has also taken a toll.
As we see more and more of our hard-earned taxpayer dollars going to pay for
these wars. Uh,
these regime change efforts that are counter to our national security interests,
counters.
The interest of the American people encountered the interests of the people in
those countries.
So is this one of those things is just a counterintuitive thing where you
would think that getting rid of someone like Khadafi would be a good idea.
He's a terrible evil person, but they get rid of them.
And now Libya is a failed state.
It's, it's horrible. What is happening in Livia as a result of that.
Mean you can watch slave auctions on YouTube. It's insane. Exactly.
It's hard to imagine that an era of YouTube and slave auctions exists in a place
that, you know,
at least some part of the blame has to be on us,
supporting the rebels that went in and took out Qaddafi.
Like it's not good to have. See, it's one of those counter-intuitive things,
right. Where it's not good to have an evil person in control of a country. Yeah.
But it's also not good to kill them. They get rid of them.
And then this power vacuum, right?
It's that, um, it's,
it's hard to accept sometimes the reality that there are bad people in the
world.
There are leaders of countries who are doing bad things against their people.
What the real question is,
is we recognize this as the world that exists in reality,
not the world that we wish, uh, existed.
And then the question is for the leaders of our country, is
what role should the United States play?
Does it make sense to try to act as the world's police,
as we have been for far too long,
both as we look at what is in the best interest of the American people,
what's in the best interest of our national security, as well as, uh,
what impact will our actions have on the people in these countries and with
Libya, not only do we see strengthened terrorist groups,
there are terrorist groups all over Libya now failed state.
The Libyan people are suffering, uh, now far more than they were before,
but we see the ramifications of that in countries like North Korea,
where again,
John Bolton and the Trump administration is talking about using the
Libya model with North Korea.
As we work towards this objective of denuclearize, the Korean peninsula,
uh, one of the leaders in the north Korean government just said the other day,
the United States government is talking about using the Libya model with North
Korea to get them to get rid of their nuclear weapons.
They don't want to end up like Libya or Iraq, where in Libya,
as you remember, the United States went in and told Gadhafi, Hey,
get rid of your nuclear weapons program. And we're not going to come after you.
And he did. He got rid of it. And what happened a very short time later,
the United States and other countries went in and took him out.
So that action and that decision,
that policy is directly undermining our national security and our efforts
to make us and the world more safe to denuclearize the Korean peninsula.
Would the argument for regime change wars being that,
would it be that if we didn't go over there and if we didn't have a military
presence and we didn't make them fight against us, that they would somehow,
or another gain more power and they would,
we would deal with this evil superpower. Is this,
there's this like the worst case scenario for the pro interventionalist foreign
policy, right?
I wouldn't even, I wouldn't even go that far. I mean, the,
the argument that's made by people who are advocating for these regime change
wars is we've got to do something to help people who are
suffering. That's generally the argument that's made. Uh,
and they sell this to the American people, knowing that, Hey, we, uh,
we ha we have good hearts and we want to help people if we can.
But what they fail to do is to tell the truth and be
honest about what they are hiding behind this guise of humanitarianism,
right? I mean, if you look at Saudi Arabia, for example,
and you look at the kinds of atrocities that that theocratic dictatorship, uh,
is conducting against its own people, decapitating, LGBTQ people,
persecuting religious minorities, uh,
being the biggest propagator of this,
this most extreme intolerant ideology of Islam that is fueling terrorist
organizations like ISIS. And Al-Qaeda waging a genocidal war in Yemen,
killing tens of thousands of people. Uh, you know,
that murder of the journalist in Turkey, the list goes on and on and on yet.
What are we hearing from leaders in our government,
both Democrats and Republicans,
Saudi Arabia is a great ally of the United States,
but then you look at what's happening in Venezuela,
ready to launch our military to go in and take out another dictator,
ready to go in and launch our military,
ready to go and wage war against Iran. So this is,
this is evidence of the hypocrisy that exists between those who are waging
regime, change war in some countries, by the way,
usually countries that don't have nuclear weapons and usually countries where
they have some other underlying interests in ulterior motive,
which is not helping the people of those countries.
And then when it's convenient for them countries like Saudi Arabia,
sidling up to a country whose leadership directly and indirectly supports.
Al-Qaida the very terrorists who attacked us on nine 11,
who we are trying to defeat.